**ADR-001: Overall architecture of the simulator**
****
***Context***: The following explanation concerns all the DDD decisions of the simulator for the SOC evolution for batteries.

This simulator will start from a known status of a battery and based on the discharge/charge curves SOC will evolve over time following simulated physical constraints.

***Decision***:

In the first instance it was considered to use a composition approach. In that one battery was containing the model.

There were two main reasons for rejecting this approach. 

- The main element is the simulation, not the battery, so in that case the responsibility to execute and orchestrate the logic of the elements is on the simulation
- It is also strange considering that the same battery can behave in two different ways depending on what model it's used. But it makes sense different simulations as a result of different inputs. 

For that reason, DDD having simulation as a service was chosen.

The domain service that orchestrates the relation between the batteries and the models it is called the SimulationEngine. 

This service receives the following value objects:

- Battery (Immutable): is the object that define boundaries and current conditions of the battery
- ChargeProfile: it is the sequence of setpoints of power over the time.

Generates:
- Simulation result: contains the time series of battery states and aggregated metrics produced by the simulation. States, SoC, Voltage, Power...

And follows the contract of:

- BatteryModel: dictates  what methods and attributes has to be implemented by the model for representing the evolution of the current/voltage curves over time.


***Consequences***:

Advantages:

- Full core logic well defined. Objects and interaction between them it's clear allowing to test them individually and faking dependencies. 

- Dependency injection is straightforward. Injecting to the simulation the battery, profile setpoints and the model allows to test the integration. 

- Having an inmutable battery allows to get snapshots of the battery for every iteration over time.

- Independent model and battery is good for testability (Not necessity of creating hybrid objects) and a model can be refined independently of the batteries that will be used by it.

Disadvantages:

- Having battery inmutable also means that RAM will get filled with a new object on every iteration. This can collapse when simulation time is too big.

- Since the model lives outside the battery, now the model doesn't have access to the battery attributes, meaning that the public interface will potentially grow for giving more insights of the batteries (Voltage open, internal resistance... etc). 


**Status**: Accepted